docs: AsciiDoc docs for publishing (#44)
elastic/ecs-logging-nodejs: docs/pino.asciidoc

See usage discussion and examples below.

[float]
[[pino-setup-step-3]]
==== Step 3: Configure Filebeat

The best way to collect the logs once they are ECS-formatted is with {filebeat-ref}[Filebeat]:

include::{ecs-repo-dir}/setup.asciidoc[tag=configure-filebeat]

[float]
[[pino-usage]]
=== Usage

[source,js]
----
const ecsFormat = require('@elastic/ecs-pino-format')
const pino = require('pino')

const log = pino(ecsFormat()) <1>
log.info('Hello world')

const child = log.child({ module: 'foo' })
child.warn('From child')
----

Running this will produce log output similar to the following:

[source,cmd]
----
{"log.level":"info","@timestamp":"2021-01-19T22:51:12.142Z","ecs":{"version":"1.5.0"},"process":{"pid":82240},"host":{"hostname":"pink.local"},"message":"Hello world"}
{"log.level":"warn","@timestamp":"2021-01-19T22:51:12.143Z","ecs":{"version":"1.5.0"},"process":{"pid":82240},"host":{"hostname":"pink.local"},"module":"foo","message":"From child"}
----

[float]
[[pino-error-logging]]
=== Error Logging

By default, the formatter will convert an `err` field that is an Error instance

> to https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-error.html[ECS Error fields].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to {ecs-ref}/ecs-error.html[ECS Error fields].
```

[source,js]
----
const log = pino(ecsFormat({ convertErr: false }))
----

[float]
[[pino-http-logging]]
=== HTTP Request and Response Logging

With the `convertReqRes: true` option, the formatter will automatically
convert Node.js core https://nodejs.org/api/http.html#http_class_http_incomingmessage[request]
and https://nodejs.org/api/http.html#http_class_http_serverresponse[response]
objects when passed as the `req` and `res` fields, respectively.
(This option replaces the usage of `req` and `res` https://getpino.io/#/docs/api?id=pinostdserializers-object[Pino serializers].)

[source,js]
----
const http = require('http')
const ecsFormat = require('@elastic/ecs-pino-format')
const pino = require('pino')

const log = pino(ecsFormat({ convertReqRes: true })) <1>

const server = http.createServer(function handler (req, res) {
  res.setHeader('Foo', 'Bar')
  res.end('ok')
  log.info({ req, res }, 'handled request') <2>
})

server.listen(3000, () => {
  log.info('listening at http://localhost:3000')
}
----
<1> use `convertReqRes` option
<2> log with `req` and/or `res` fields

This will produce logs with request and response info using

> https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-http.html[ECS HTTP fields].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{ecs-ref}/ecs-http.html[ECS HTTP fields].
```

{
  "log.level": "info",
  "@timestamp": "2021-01-19T22:58:59.649Z",
  "ecs": {
    "version": "1.5.0"
  },
  "process": {
    "pid": 82670
  },
  "host": {
    "hostname": "pink.local"
  },
  "http": {
    "version": "1.1",
    "request": {
      "method": "get",
      "headers": {
        "host": "localhost:3000",
        "accept": "*/*"
      }
    },
    "response": {
      "status_code": 200,
      "headers": {
        "foo": "Bar"
      }
    }
  },
  "url": {
    "full": "http://localhost:3000/",
    "path": "/"
  },
  "user_agent": {
    "original": "curl/7.64.1"
  },
  "message": "handled request"
}
----

The https://github.com/elastic/ecs-logging-nodejs/tree/master/loggers/pino/examples[examples/ directory]
shows sample programs using request and response logging:
https://github.com/elastic/ecs-logging-nodejs/tree/master/loggers/pino/examples/express-simple.js[with Express],
https://github.com/elastic/ecs-logging-nodejs/tree/master/loggers/pino/examples/express-with-pino-http.js[with the pino-http middleware package],
etc.

[float]
[[pino-apm]]
=== Integration with APM Tracing

This ECS log formatter integrates with https://www.elastic.co/apm[Elastic APM].

> If your Node app is using the https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/apm/agent/nodejs/current/intro.html[Node.js Elastic APM Agent],
> then fields are added to log records that https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-tracing.html[identify an active trace] and the configured service name
> (https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-service.html#field-service-name["service.name"] and
> https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-event.html#field-event-dataset["event.dataset"]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your Node app is using the {apm-node-ref}/intro.html[Node.js Elastic APM Agent],
then fields are added to log records that {ecs-ref}ecs-tracing.html[identify an active trace] and the configured service name
({ecs-ref}/ecs-service.html#field-service-name["service.name"] and
{ecs-ref}/ecs-event.html#field-event-dataset["event.dataset"]).
```

[[pino]]
== ECS Logging with Pino

This Node.js package provides a formatter for the https://getpino.io[pino]
logger, compatible with {ecs-logging-ref}/intro.html[ELastic Common Schema (ECS) logging].
In combination with the https://www.elastic.co/beats/filebeat[Filebeat] shipper,
you can https://www.elastic.co/log-monitoring[monitor all your logs] in one
place in the Elastic Stack.

[float]
=== Setup

[float]
[[pino-setup-step-1]]
=== Step 1: Install

[source,cmd]
----
$ npm install @elastic/ecs-pino-format
----

[float]
[[pino-setup-step-2]]
=== Step 2: Configure

[source,js]
----
const ecsFormat = require('@elastic/ecs-pino-format')
const pino = require('pino')

const log = pino(ecsFormat()) <1>
log.info('hi')
log.error({ err: new Error('boom') }, 'oops there is a problem')
// ...
----
<1> This will https://getpino.io/#/docs/api?id=options[configure] Pino's `formatters`, `messageKey` and `timestamp` options.

See usage discussion and examples below.

[float]
[[pino-setup-step-3]]
==== Step 3: Configure Filebeat

> The best way to collect the logs once they are ECS-formatted is with https://www.elastic.co/beats/filebeat[Filebeat]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The best way to collect the logs once they are ECS-formatted is with {filebeat-ref}[Filebeat]:
```
